# python-api-challenge
Vacation and Weather Py Challenge

Running WeatherPy.ipynb in the Resources folder first, we can pull from the citipy Python library and OpenWeatherMap API to retrieve data on a variety of randomised cities to then create a DataFrame holding their Latitude, Longitude, Maximum Temperature for the day, Current Humidity, Cloudiness, Wind Speed and Date of when the information was recorded. Using this information, we perform a series of scatter plots to compare Latitude of all cities against each of the weather metrics which we output the visualisations for into our Output folder as well as the DataFrame used when we collected all the data from the API. Then we perform a linear regression for each of these based on whether the cities are in the Northern or Southern Hemisphere.

Next we run VacationPy.ipynb (also in the Resources folder) to discover which cities fit our ideal vacation location. This file uses the cities.csv we created in WeatherPy.ipynb to map each location, with humidity for each city represented by the size of each dot on the map. We then can amend the parameters to fit our own desired vacation weather patterns (or parts of the world using latitude and longitude) to create a new refined DataFrame. Before we map these though, we add a column to the table to hold information on the nearest hotel within 10,000m (this can be amended by changing the "radius" variable) and using the GeoApify API, we search for these nearest hotels and add them to the DataFrame. Using this DataFrame, we then map the refined data set (with dot size still representing humidity), and when hovering over it, we can see if there is a nearby hotel that we can stay at!
